Alhamdulillah.
We begin by praising Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala and thanking him and seeking his
aid and assistance and who seek refuge
in Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala from the
evil of our souls and from our evil
deeds and I testify that whomsoever
Allah subhana wa ta'ala guides there's
no one to lead us stray and whomsoever
Allahhanaa allow us to stray there is no
guide for him we ask Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala for beneficial knowledge and to
increase us in knowledge and to make us
of those that hear from knowledge and
implement the best of it Allah
um okay it says There's no picture. Is
that just for Haj or is that for
everyone? Is everyone else able to see
me?
Checking. Are you guys able to see me?
Please.
Okay. How about now?
Can you see me
now? I do not. Oh, now you can.
Allahbar. Allahbar.
Allahbar. Alhamdulillah.
Alhamdulillah. Thank you so much for
that. Um so yes we ask Allahhana wa tala
for beneficial knowledge and to increase
us in beneficial knowledge and to make
us of those that implement and act upon
their beneficial
knowledge. You know subhan Allah one
lesson that I'm learning on this trip is
that you cannot rely upon technology. I
don't know why. Subhan Allah. Um, like I
have a pretty decent computer
and
Allah Allah must I'm not sure why this
is happening my dear brothers and
sisters please forgive me for that. I
think my internet connection may be
weak, but when I tested my internet
connection, it said that I really had um
good solid internet like it was 16
megabytes uh download and 12 GB uh
upload. Um so I'm not sure what's
happening but let's proceed
anyways. May Allah make it easy.
Hopefully you know it comes back. We'll
try again
inshallah. How about now?
inshallah. Okay, saying alhamdulillah my
trip to Houston was absolutely amazing.
It was such a a big blessing from Allah
subhana wa t'ala to be able to meet all
of the other and to spend time with them
and alhamdulillah I got to do some
recordings as well and alhamdulillah I'm
still in Houston and I'm here to uh
inshallah with the of Allah you know
discuss with you. So let's jump straight
into it. I'm hoping that even though you
may not be able to see me, you will be
able to see the PowerPoint. May Allah
subhana wa ta'ala make it easy. Let's
try
this. Okay, that didn't
work. Okay, this
I've put on the PowerPoint. Can you
confirm if you can see the
PowerPoint? Are you able to see the
PowerPoint? We're on ayah number 19.
Ayah number 19.
Let me know if you can see the
PowerPoint
inshallah and then once I see your
answers I'll continue from there
inshallah. Alhamdulillah.
Perfect. Let's go back to the PowerPoint
inshallah. Excellent.
Excellent. Excellent. Excellent.
Alhamdulillah.
Okay. Allahh he
says
Here in this verse, Allahh says, "And
similarly we awakened them that they
might question one another, said a
speaker from among them, how long have
you remained here?" They said, "We have
remained a day or part of a day." They
said, "Your lord is most knowing of how
long you have remained. So send one of
you with this silver coin of yours to
the city and let him look to which is
the best of food and bring you provision
from it and let him be cautious and let
no one be aware of you." So now Allah
subhana t is now telling us that and he
has now awoken them after being asleep
for 309 years. And you can imagine that
you've been asleep for 309 years. When
you wake up from that, you are going to
be completely disoriented. Subhan Allah.
And one of them said, "How long have we
been being awake?" And one of them
responded, "We have been asleep for uh a
day or part of a day." Now, why would
they say that? Some of the scholars
mentioned that when they went to sleep,
it was daytime and then when they woke
up, it was nighttime. And others said
that when they went to sleep it was
nighttime and when they woke up it was
daytime. So it seemed that only a day or
part of a day had gone by and that is
why they are feeling disoriented. Little
did they know that they have been asleep
for
309 years. Then Allah subhana wa ta'ala
goes on to
say that one of them said to the other
and your lord is most knowledgeable of
how long we have slept and this is very
important to understand because there
are certain things that you may have
speculative knowledge of meaning that
you think you know the answer but you're
not 100% sure and in those matters it is
always important to say Allah that Allah
subhana wa ta'ala knows So if you're not
certain always attribute ultimate
knowledge to Allah subhana wa
ta'ala
sorry he
quotes saying is knowledge is three
things. It is a verse from the Quran and
authentic sunnah from the sallallahu
alaihi wasallam and the statement I do
not know. This is what knowledge
consists of a verse from the Quran and
authentically established of the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam and the
statement I do not know. Other scholars
have said like
im saying I do not know is half of
knowledge. And when you say I do not
know, you always follow it up while
with right that is the proper etiquette
that when you do not know something you
uh accept ignorance for yourself and
then you attribute ultimate knowledge to
Allah subhana wa ta'ala and this is
something really fascinating that when
you look
inside Allah subhana wa ta
says that on top of Every possessor of
knowledge is the most knowledgeable
meaning Allah subhanana wa ta'ala. So
all knowledge emanates and sources
itself with Allah subhana wa ta'ala.
Everything that we know we only know
through Allah subhana wa ta'ala. So even
though we cannot mathematically compare
or understand the percentage of
knowledge that we have from Allah
subhana wa ta'ala, we do know it is the
most minuscule and minute of fractions.
Right? It is you know a fraction of one
out of infinity and anything out of
infinity obviously is not
comprehendable. Subhan Allah. So that is
how much knowledge Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala has and much much more. So in
these form in these types of speculative
discussions always
say I do not know and Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala knows best. So now you can
imagine they've woken up from 3009ers.
Not only are they disoriented, but they
are extremely hungry. Subhan Allah. I
don't know if you've had those
situations where you've traveled for
long periods of time and all you want to
do is get to bed and then when you go to
sleep, subhan Allah, you'll sleep for
like, you know, 10 hours or 12 hours.
Subhan Allah. Like especially when I
come back from uh like for from Haj and
Omrah, you know those trips on the way
home, you haven't slept in like 24 hours
and then you go to sleep. Subhan Allah.
You pray isa and you wake up the next
day at fud time and like 12 hours have
gone by or 10 hours have gone by and
that by that time you are extremely
hungry. Now you can imagine your level
of hunger after 309 years. Subhan Allah.
You're literally you know want to eat
anything at that time. But even though
they are so hungry they remind one
another that we should only eat pure
food. So go to the city that has the
purest of food and then seek it out and
then seek it out. So then the importance
of seeking that which is halal and and
pure should always be a priority and one
should not compromise on the uh food
that they eat and this is something that
you know often isn't discussed enough
but why is it that Allah subhana wa
ta'ala has legislated halal and food for
us. So halal from the perspective that
it should be cut in the uh most merciful
and compassionate of ways while causing
the least amount of pain to the animal
while hastening the process and it
should be by one that recognizes Allah
subhana wa ta'ala and his books. Now the
concept is also fascinating in the in
the concept of that the animal shouldn't
have been fed any impurities. This food
should be wholesome and nutritious. And
there's even a further concept of it.
And this is something that for those of
us that like to cook, I think a good
habit to establish is that when we're
cooking, we make the of Allah subhana wa
ta'ala while we're cooking, busying our
tongue
with
and sending upon the prophet Muhammad
sallallahu alaihi wasallam. And this
will bring an extra form of baraka to
the food. This will bring an extra form
of baraka to the food being engaged in
vikar at all times. And this will make
the f the food even pure. So now um this
man from amongst the group that is going
he has this silver coin or this uh
currency that they had from their age.
And you can imagine that from their age
the coins were engraved with the
tyrannical emperor that they had at that
time. So it's really going to make this
individual look awkward. This individual
his hair has been growing for 309 years.
beard has been going for 309 years.
Nails have been going for 309 years. And
on top of that, to the clothes that
they're wearing, um they may be slightly
damaged, but more importantly, they're
completely old-fashioned. You can
imagine how much fashion changes in a
period of decades. Subhan Allah. Look at
the way people used to dress in the 80s
and 90s and early 2000s compared to the
way they dress now. Subhan Allah. So
now, how about when 300 years go by? How
about when 300 years go by? So they send
this man to go and seek their provisions
and they advise
him you know the name of Allah subhana
wa
ta'ala comes from being uh subtle and
being undetectable. So how many things
does Allah subhana wa ta do for us out
of his generosity and out of his
kindness that are so sublime meaning
that they're not detected. So for
example, the way that our body functions
internally, the way we breathe, the way
our blood flows, the way our neurons
work, all of that is from the lof of
Allah subhana wa ta'ala that is so
subtle that we do not even recognize
that it's happening. But these are from
the greatest of gifts of Allah subhana
wa tala upon us. So they're being
they're advising this man that have such
a level of l that no one can detect you.
Now why are they being so cautious?
because they're afraid that if they get
caught, they will be persecuted. They
might be killed or even worse is that
they will be forced back uh into or they
will be forced into idolatry. They will
be forced into idolatry. Now, let's look
at the notes. Allah subhanaa t kept them
in the exact form they slept in when
they woke up from the of being with a
group is that one person is assigned to
complete a task for the group. So, we
should always have a leader from the
sunnah. When we travel, we establish an
amir while we are traveling. It is from
the adab that each person in the group
contributes some money so that it is not
one person. And this is based upon one's
capability. Whatever people can afford,
they should display their generosity.
Particularly when traveling or
particularly when hardship even though
they were all hungry, they wanted the
purest of food. The word means that it
is halal food that can be shared with
everyone and food that is ready to eat
immediately.
Verse number
20. The the Allahh goes on to
say indeed if they come to know of you
they will stone you or return you to
their religion and then you would never
succeed thereafter. So they are
referring to the society that they left
behind. So these young men, they don't
know that time has gone by, right? They
don't know that time has gone by. They
think they're still in the same age and
in the same generation. So they're
afraid that if they get caught by these
people then in that situation that they
will be stoned or they'll be forced into
idolatry. They'll be stoned or forced
into idolatry. And subhan Allah, this
shows us how the perception of time is
relative. It is relative. Allah subhana
wa ta'ala ultimately controls time as he
pleases. For these individuals, they are
unable to tell how much time has gone
by. Yet Allah subhana wa ta'ala cost 309
years to go by. And then I want you to
look at the level of diligence they are
showing with regards to their protection
of their faith that they are worried for
their own selves and they're worried for
their iman. Meaning that if you look
at from the or the five necessities that
the Sharia came to protect what are the
first two they are human life and faith
and these individuals are concerned over
their life and concerned over their
faith. So they've established that you
know these two things have to be
protected and subhan Allah this is from
their intelligence and then they see
something for
profound meaning that if you're forced
to convert into their idolatry then you
will never succeed and this shows us
that idolatry never brings about success
and that their understanding of success
is true success meaning in the hereafter
you will never be entered into Jenna
while committing shik with Allah
And it is only the and the that will be
entered into Jenna. It is only the and
the that will be entered into Jenna. So
they understood success to mean that
success is with Allah subhana wa tala in
this life and being entered into Jenna
in the hereafter being entered into
Jenna in the hereafter. And it also
shows subhan Allah the level of
diligence they show with regards to
protecting their own lives and their
faith. And this is you know if you were
to extract this from a hadith of the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam it is
the we do not allow harm uh to others
nor do we allow harm to be done to
ourselves nor do we allow harm to be
done to ourselves. And the utmost things
that need to be protected are our lives
and our faith. And then thereafter our
intellects, uh our wealth and then uh
the continuation of life with honor. The
continuation of life with honor. Those
are
the or the five things that the came to
protect. Now let's look at the notes
over here. They told the person to get
food without causing commotion or being
recognized so that they do not get
harmed. This is an ada for us to follow
today as well. We should not think that
we need to stand out or seek attention.
Now I want to briefly comment on this. I
was reading something very fascinating
by with regards to people that live in
the lands of the non-Muslims. So often
find you will find texts that show that
Muslims should be unique and stand out
uh differently from uh
non-Muslims right this based upon the
hadith of the
prophetam that whoever assimilates with
a people then he is from
them he goes on to talk about this point
that particularly for those that are
living as minorities in non-Muslim lands
opposition and defiance should only take
place if there is no harm and there is a
benefit to be attained and there is a
benefit to be attained. If that is not
the case then follow their traditions
and their ways as long as it does not
oppose the Sharia. So in the way that we
dress, in the way that we talk, as long
as we're not in opposition to the
Sharia, then those ways should be
embraced. And this is how trust is
built. And this creates good opportunity
for conversation, but more importantly,
more conversation that leads to da'wah.
More conversation that leads to da'wah.
So this is not to say this is to say
that we shouldn't aim for assimilation
but we aim for integration with our
Islamic identities that our actions will
speak louder than our words our
personalities will speak louder than the
way that we dress and the the way that
we do dress should not bring extra
attention to us should not bring extra
attention to us. Point number two, after
all of this, they were still thinking
about how to preserve their
imbar, right? That should always be at
the forefront of your mind. Even if they
were forced to go back to the religion
of the people, they would not have been
at fault because they would have been
forced to. And this is based
upon multiple uh ayat and hadith. But
the story of Abnu is perhaps uh the most
explicit in this context where the
Quraysh had threatened him and he
basically said words of disbelief and at
the time he came crying to the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam and the
prophet asked him how was the state of
your heart. He said it was filled with
iman oh messenger of Allah and the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam told
him that if they command you to do this
again then repeat what you did repeat
what you did. So if you are in situation
where Allahhana tala protect all of us
uh from ever being in such circumstances
where your iman is being threatened then
even if you're forced to do something
you will not be held accountable for it.
You will not be held accountable for it.
When this story was revealed, Quresh
realized that the prophet sallallah.aii
wasallam was a true prophet and subhan
Allah how you can have knowledge of
something but up and until it leads to
action and following of that knowledge
and implementing it, it will be a proof
against you. It will be a proof against
you and it only becomes a proof for you
if you act upon it. And that is what the
Qur didn't do. I'm just going to do a
quick check to make sure that uh you
guys are still following along and that
everything is working because I've been
afraid um from the previous sessions.
Alhamdulillah. It seems that you guys
are able to see my
PowerPoint. I will go back to that
now. Okay, let's go back to the
PowerPoint and let's go back to
slideshow from the current slide.
There we go. Then Allah subhana wa
ta'ala goes on to say
Allah subhana t goes on to say they will
say there were three the fourth of them
being their dog and they will say there
were five the sixth of them being their
dog guessing at the unseen and they will
say that there were seven and the eighth
of them was their dog say oh Muhammad
sallallahu alaihi wasallam my lord is
most knowing of their number none knows
them except a few. So do not argue about
them except with an obvious argument and
do not inquire about them among these
speculators from anyone. So in this
verse Allah subhana wa ta'ala is
addressing that now this incident has
taken place. It has been documented but
as so happened with the books of the
previous uh nations their books were
altered. There were additions. There
were exaggerations. there were
subtractions and a lot of that took
place. So within their scriptures and
within their stories people were unsure
as to how many there were. And here
Allah subhana wa ta'ala shares three
opinions. Opinion number one is that
there were three and the fourth of them
was their dog. Opinion number two, there
were five of them and the sixth of them
was their dog. And opinion number three,
there were seven of them and the eighth
was their dog. Well, let's go back to
one thing. Remember how Allah subhana wa
ta'ala honors the dog to be included in
these numbers because they the dog kept
the company of the righteous. This theme
comes up again over here. The fact that
the dog is being counted. The dog is
being counted. Number two, how
meticulous the numbers are. They weren't
just like they were arranged from one to
five or ranged one to seven but
specifically three human beings and then
the fourth is the dog. Five human beings
specifically the sixth is the dog and
then seven human beings and then the
eighth of the dog. So these are the
meticulous details and this is what
Allahhana is saying that they may have
preserved the general story but they did
not know the specifics. It is only Allah
subhana wa ta'ala that knows the
specifics.
Now let's look at the following uh
things. Opinion number one and opinion
number two, they seem to be incorrect.
The majority of scholars went with the
opinion that they were seven and that
the dog was the eighth and the dog was
the eighth. Why did they go towards this
opinion? Because after the first two
opinions are mentioned, Allahhana
says meaning they're just, you know,
throwing arrows in the dark. When you
throws are in the dark, sometimes you
may be right, but most of the times
you'll be wrong. And that's what Allah
subhana wa ta'ala says about the first
two opinions. Whereas when it comes to
the uh last opinion seven their dog
being the eighth the messenger of Allah
sallallahu alaihi wasallam is commanded
to
say that my lord is the most
knowledgeable of their number and even
though Allahh doesn't specifically
mention it uh it seems that the fact
that Allah subhana wa tala says
thereafter that only Allah knows the
true number that this is the opinion and
this was the opinion of Abbas that
mentions as as the verse goes on to
say that my Lord is most knowledgeable
of their number and no one knows their
number except for a few.
Abbas said that I am from amongst the
few that know and they were seven and
they were seven. So this was the opinion
of Ibn Abbas and also the majority based
on this. Now the prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam is given very specific
commands. Do not debate with them. Do
not argue with
them except with a very surface level
discussion. Meaning don't be rude that
you ignore their questions and that you
don't engage with them. But just keep it
very surface level because at the end of
the day when it comes to such
speculative knowledge there's no way to
verify. And that is why as believers we
say Allah knows best. And this is why
the messenger of Allah sallallahu alaihi
wasallam himself is
commanded that say my lord knows their
specific
number and do not question them uh
meaning the people of the book about the
people of the cave. Not even a single
one of them. Not even a single one of
them. Meaning that if you were to ask
them and to speculate with them, it
would seem that perhaps there is some
sort of doubt or perhaps they have some
sort of truth that you do not. But you
Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam are
upon the truth and you do not need to
engage in the speculative knowledge from
those that do not have any knowledge.
Rather get your knowledge directly from
Allah subhana wa ta'ala. And when you
have knowledge directly from Allah
subhana wa ta'ala, you're not in need of
knowledge from anywhere or anyone else.
So this is where we see that these are
the guesses made by the Jews and
Christians. That's number two. Allah is
telling the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam to not get into arguments
regarding small technical details. Even
if you get over the argument, we are
still human. So the wound still remains
and argumentation always leads to to
disputes and to harm. But this shows us
that be very careful of the things that
you discuss and argue about for being
real with you. What is the benefit to
your iman if they were three or five or
seven? Will your ean increase if they
were three? Will your ean increase if
they were five? Will your ean increase?
Will they seven? Will it decrease if
they were five? Would it decrease if
they were f seven? Would it decrease if
they were three? It wouldn't. So these
are technicalities and details that have
very little fruit and impact. Very
little fruit and impact. And that is why
we should not be overly concerned about
them. Right? We see this from the hadith
of the prophet wasallam when the man
asks him when is the hour and you would
think such an important question who
wouldn't want to know when the hour is
the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
reframes it for him and says what have
you prepared for it mean rather than
wondering when the hour is what have you
prepared for it so knowledge that is
beneficial is that which leads to action
and if the knowledge does not leads to
action it is not worth uh knowing about
it is not worth knowing about right so
whether it was three, whether it was
five, whether it was seven, there's
nothing to implement over here. So this
is an ignorance that does not harm, an
ignorance that does not harm and a
knowledge that does not benefit and a
knowledge that does not benefit. And the
concluding point, we should not ask
non-Muslims about matters related to the
dean. We don't need proof in their
Sharia to know that ours is correct.
Allah abar, right? The fact that we
believe in Allah subhanaa tala and his
messenger sallallahu alaihi wasallam
then anything that Allah subhana wa tala
has said or his messenger sallallahu
alaihi wasallam have said then that is
sufficient for us. Now let's go on a bit
of a tangent. All of a sudden Allah
subhana wa ta'ala commands the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam
And never say of anything indeed I will
do that tomorrow except when adding if
Allah wills and remember your Lord when
you forget and say perhaps my Lord will
guide me to that which is nearer than
this to right conduct.
So now let's go back. Why are we going
on this tangent? If you remember the
reason of revelation of the surah, they
had asked the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam about
and and the inhabitants of the cave. And
the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
told them come back to me tomorrow and I
will inform you. And he did not say
inshallah. And thereafter revelation was
delayed. It took a few days for
revelation to come down. So now here the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam is
being reminded and subhan Allah this is
so beautiful my dear brothers and
sisters that from a human perspective if
someone reminds us and correct us we may
be offended but this is the perfection
of the character of the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam that he had
Allah subhanana wa ta'ala to remind him
and to correct him Allah abbar you know
what a who could you ask for a better
reminder from than Allah subhanaa tala
you couldn't Allah subhana wa tala is
the best of reminders and the best of
correctors and he corrected and
perfected the and the adab of the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam and
we learn from this we learn andl from
this. So we learn that when we intend to
do something or we want something to
happen the in the future then we should
always follow it up with
inshallah that if it is good it will
happen or by the will of Allah subhana
wa ta'ala it will happen and this is
something for the future you don't use
it for the past and you don't use it for
the present but you use it for the
future now this does not mean that one
has a very fatalistic approach to in in
the sense that you know what the
future's in the hands of Allah I don't
need to prepare for it but rather you
prepare for it you try your best
whatever you're aiming to achieve and to
do and you add to it inshallah some of
the scholars have mentioned that when
you say inshallah it is as if you're
seeking baraka from Allahhanaa that oh
Allah bless this for me if it is good
for me oh Allah bless this for me if it
is good for me then Allahhana goes on to
And as human beings we have a tendency
to forget. Now it's interesting the the
word you know where does this where does
its ethmology come from? Does it come
from to forget? Does it come from the
need to socialize? Both of these
opinions uh exist. Now what we learn
from this is that regardless of where
the ethmology comes from it is a fact of
human life that we are forgetful and
that we will always forget uh at some
point in our lives. Some of us uh forget
more than others. Now when you forget to
remember Allah subhana wa
ta'ala what did you do right you want
you said I'm going to do such and such
tomorrow but you forgot to say
inshallah. Allahh goes on to say and
don't worry if you did not remember to
say
inshallah remember your lord when you
have forgotten remember your lord when
you have forgotten and there's multiple
interpretations to this which I want to
share with you interpretation number one
is that if you forgot to say inshallah
then you just say that oh Allah I forgot
in you know I ask for your blessings and
for your mercy that you grant me that
which is best and you facilitate that
which is good for me. And you can say
inshallah after. Just like at the
beginning of eating, you're meant to
say, but if you forget to say as you
begin to eat, we are taught that you
sayism that oh Allah, we begin in your
name at the beginning and at the end.
That is what you say if you get to
forget to say at the beginning. And that
is the same thing that is happening over
here that you just say inshallah
whenever you remember. Whenever you
remember. There's another interpretation
to this verse which is you isolate it
from the first verse. You isolate it
from the first verse. So now Allah
subhana t is saying that if you're ever
in a state of forgetfulness then
remember Allah and Allah will remind
you. If you're ever in a state of
forgetfulness then remember Allah and
Allah will remind you. And the scholars
said that whenever someone forgets
something if they were to
say then Allah will help them remember.
Other scholars have said that if you
send salah and salam upon the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam then Allah
subhana wa ta'ala will help you
remember. And if I'm not mistaken the
second opinion was actually the opinion
of mujah was actually the opinion of
mujah that whenever one is in a state of
forgetfulness and they are forgetting
something that they're trying to
remember send upon the prophet Muhammad
sallallahu alaihi wasallam and then
Allah subhana wa ta'ala will remind you.
Now what is the harm of continuously
forgetting Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala?
Allah subhana wa tala tells us about
this inah when he tells
us that do not be like those who forgot
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala. So Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala made them forget
themselves meaning that they did not
stick to their priorities. They do not
care about their dean. They did not care
about their nor did they have control
over the so it's as if they lost control
over themselves by forgetting Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala. Another consequence
of this is we see
in Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala uh he tells
us about um the
individual I'm trying to remember of the
the beginning of the verse
um
uh how does the verse
Go and
victory that this individual will be
raised blind on the day of judgment and
he will say, "Oh Allah, why was I raised
blind when I was able to see?" And Allah
subhana wa ta'ala will say that thus our
signs and our verses came to you but you
neglected them and you ignored them and
thus today you shall be forgotten and
neglected. May Allah subhana wa ta'ala
protect us from being of those people
and for protect us from being in that
situation. Then the prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam is
commanded meaning that once you've taken
all the preparations and you've said
inshallah but what if the plan goes the
other way so for example you're planning
on traveling tomorrow you said inshallah
I will be traveling tomorrow but then
Allah subhana wa ta delays your travel
by a day or two you know there's a a
weather warning something like that that
that happens at that time we're told to
submit submit to the of Allah
Because Allah subhana wa ta'ala is
guiding you to something better than you
had planned. Allahh is guiding you to
something better than you had planned.
And this is
why used to say that, "Oh Allah, I do
not know what is best for me. Only you
know what is best for me." When Allahh
guides you to something different than
you had planned and prepared for,
understand that Allah subhana wa ta is
bringing you uh to something that is
better for you. Bringing you to
something that is better for you. to
learn to submit and do not fight the of
Allah.
has said that if there were there was
any verse in the Quran the prophetam
could have hid it would have been these
verses. Meaning because it is reminding
the prophetam of his shortcoming and
that was just human nature that none of
us wants our uh you know laundry exposed
in that vernacular right that this is
something the prophet forgot to do and
the prophetam would have wished that he
didn't make this mistake he wished that
he didn't make the mistake because the
prophetam did not say inshallah when
replying to the Quraysh 15 days passed
by and there was a difference of opinion
that we mentioned 3 days 6 days 9 days
15 days amongst the various supreme
that he did not receive revelation and
Allah raised the prophet sallallaihi
wasallam in the best way meaning in the
best the prophetam believed it in his
heart and undoubtedly but Allah was
still telling him that you have to
verbalize it and this shows us that
sometimes faith in internally is not
enough it has to be verbalized and it
has to be acted upon so when you're
making vikar vikar should be made on the
tongue and it should not just be left in
the heart if someone tells you to do or
say something good even if it is small
just say it Allahbar. So when we're
encouraged you know you're at an event
and the speaker saying say a mean or the
speaker says and you say Allahbar. So
whenever something you're encouraged to
do something good embrace that
encouragement. Embrace that
encouragement. Then Allah subhana wa
ta'ala goes on to say
Now this is where we're going to
conclude and I want to speak a little
bit about
this and they remained in their cave for
300 years and exceeded by nine. Say
Allah is most knowing of how long they
remained. He has knowledge of the unseen
and aspects of the heavens and earth.
How seeing is he and how hearing. They
have not besides him any protector and
he shares not in his legislation with
anyone. He shares not in his legislation
with anyone. This is where we will be
stopping for today. So now let's look at
what Allah subhana wa ta'ala says that
they remained in their cave for 300
years plus 9. 300 years plus 9. Now
where does this actually come from? So
in your notes you see that they stayed
in their no in the cave for 309 years
and imi says that this is a more
eloquent way of speaking 300 + 9 right
but you'll find other opinions as well
and this is what I wanted to share with
you.
He says something profound. He said in
lunar years it was
39 years but in solar years it was 300.
So Allahhana is basically saying in
solar years it was 300 but if you want
lunar years you add 9 years and it
becomes 309 years. This was the opinion
of and I found this very very
fascinating.
this constant reminder of Allah subhana
wa ta'ala having ultimate knowledge of
Allah subhana wa tala having ultimate
knowledge that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
knows the unseen affairs of the heavens
and the earth knows the unseen affairs
of the heavens and the earth meaning
that these are matters that you could
not have known just by seeing yourself
you couldn't have known this that no one
would have been alive to see this and
report it later. So the only way we know
this is from the unseen that Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala has informed us of
that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has
informed us
of meaning look at the signs of Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala and listen to them
so you have the physical signs which you
see which are the creation of the earth
and the creation of
ourselves and listen meaning listen to
the verses of Allah subhana wa ta'ala
that are revealed to the prophet Phet
sallallahu alaihi
wasallam that these nor the people of
the book they do not have any protectors
other than Allah subhana wa ta'ala. So
this goes back to this concept of if you
look at the concept of idolatry that
those people of the town were
implementing nothing benefit could have
benefited them and nothing could have
harmed them except by the will of
Allahhana wa tala yet they still chose
to worship their idols. And if you
recognize that only Allah subhana wa
ta'ala can protect you and can benefit
you, how can you take anyone else as a
protector? How can you take anyone else
as a protector? And then Allah subhana t
goes on to
say no one will ever have a share in the
command other than Allah subhana wa
ta'ala. And this is amazing. Subhan
Allah. Because if you look at um a
couple of things that have taken place
in this story, number one is that Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala, he caused these
people to sleep for 309 years and then
he raised them. And then he raised them.
Um
actually, and then he raised them.
Sorry, just give me uh one second, my
dear brothers and sisters. There's just
something I wanted to check in my notes
if you don't mind.
Um, let's go back.
Okay. Yeah, we did not uh cover
this. So, subhan Allah. I don't know how
we ended up skipping that. I think when
I went back, we didn't cover this uh
portion, but we will uh cover this in
detail. So, let's go back to what we
were discussing and then we'll go back
to uh the previous part. So now um here
Allah subhana wa ta'ala he says that no
one will have control in the command
with Allah subhana wa tala that he is
ultimately in control that he is the one
that when he says be it is and when he
says cease it desists right that is the
will of Allah subhana wa t'ala and just
like he was able to bring the uh these
men of the cave and put them to sleep
meaning cause them to temporarily uh die
if we want to call it that. He was able
to raise them again. He was able to
raise them again. So I want uh to speak
about this and this marks the completion
of the story of gaf. There's nothing
that can come or change or challenge the
details of the story as this was
ultimately from Allah subhana wa ta'ala.
Now the part that I've forgot to discuss
with you may Allah subhana wa ta'ala
forgive me and uh all of you is uh in
verse 21. In verse
21 where Allah subhana wa ta'ala says
And subhan Allah. This whole time I was
sensing it feels like something's
missing. It feels like something
missing. And Allahbar alhamdulillah
Allahh reminded me what it was because I
was like there's something I wanted to
tell you that you know I I forgot to
tell you. So here, and I apologize,
we're jumping all over the place. We'll
get back to that point uh soon,
inshallah. Is that now that the men were
found in the cave, one of them went to
uh the city to get food and he was
eventually caught over there. He was
eventually caught over there because he
looked very different. He spoke
different. The money that he had was
old. So they took him to the emperor.
And by that time uh the vast majority of
these people had become monotheists and
were Christian. They were monotheists
and were Christian. And the emperor
recognized that these were the men of
the cave that their ancestors used to
speak about that they used to speak
about. So here Allah subhana wa ta'ala
is go saying that thus Allah subhana wa
tala revealed this story that they may
know that the promise of Allah subhana
wa tala is true. And this is so amazing
that when Allah subhanaa tala mentions
that the promise of Allah subhana wa
tala is true, it's a vague and ambiguous
statement. But what's it referring to?
The promise of Allah being true refers
to two things. Number one, the fact that
Allah subhana wa ta'ala will always give
victory to the people of the truth. And
as long as people stick to their
principles and try their best, victory
will be theirs. Victory will be theirs.
And then number two, the promise of
Allah is that just as Allah subhana wa
ta'ala is able to bring people back to
life after they are asleep, he is able
to resurrect the dead. The process is
exactly the same. Just like Allah
subhana wa ta brings us back to life
after we sleep, he is able to resurrect
uh the dead uh in the hereafter. And
this is why Allah subhana wa ta'ala goes
on to
say that there is no doubt that the hour
will be established. There is no doubt
that the hour will be established. And
you notice that this is something that
the Qur used to deny and used to say
that we have no knowledge of that when
uh if the hour will take place here
Allah subhana wa ta reprimands them that
just like Allah subhana wa ta is telling
you this story just like Allah subhana
wa ta'ala will give victory to the
people of the truth just like Allah
subhana wa ta'ala brings you back to
life after you're asleep have no doubt
that the hour is true as well now why
does Allah subhana wa tala keep
reminding us in the Quran about the day
of judgment because if you truly
understand the value of the day of
judgment and the significance of the day
of judgment, it is meant to transform
your behavior. You want to do everything
you possibly can to please Allah subhana
wa tala and you want to stay away from
everything that would bring about
Allah's anger or Allah's wrath and in
fact even in those circumstances when
you are doing something you want to
choose the most beneficial thing that
you can do at that time because you
realize that on the day of judgment you
will get more uh at that time so you
always want to pursue that which will
grant you the greatest amount of and
thus it transforms your behavior of
constantly pursuing the greatest good
possible at any given moment and to
abstain as far away as possible and
refrain as much as you possibly can from
any sin because you recognize that it
will have an impact uh on your reckoning
on the day of judgment. That is why
Allahh continuously reminds us of the
day of judgment in the Quran and that is
why it is so important to believe in
because it is the greatest modifier of
positive behavior. And then Allah
subhana t goes on to say that this is
what they were disputing amongst
themselves. What was the dispute that is
it only the soul that will be
resurrected on the day of judgment or is
it the body and the soul and the emperor
at that time he used this as a proof to
say that it is the body and the soul. So
just how these young men went to sleep
that it is their body and their soul
that came back to life. And similarly
that is what will happen on the day of
judgment. That is what will happen on
the day of judgment. So the emperor got
the proof that he wanted. So now after
this has all taken place, these young
men in the cave eventually all pass
away. They're brought back to life for a
short period of time, but then they are
all caused to die. And now the people
want to commemorate to them. So some of
them said that we will build a building
on top of them. Another group said that
we will build a masid on top of them.
And then here Allah subhana wa ta'ala
says that those that were larger in
number or those whose opinion mattered
most. Their opinion was that we will
build a masid like the people of the
past particularly the Christians used to
do. They used to build their places of
worship upon their deceased. And this
was something for their times and it is
not something from the um of Muhammad
sallallahu alaihi wasallam. The um of
Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam does
not put graves inside the masid nor does
it build massagid on top of graves. This
was something that was explicitly from
their time. And that is why you know
eventually uh if we ever find where this
place actually is, we would find a place
of worship, a monastery close to it. A
monastery close to it. And people have
claimed that they know where it is. But
one of the signs that you would look for
is that there would be a monastery close
to it and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
knows best. So the notes from this verse
and Allah's promise is that the truth
will always prevail and the people of
truth will always prevail that the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam has
no monuments but he's still the most
remembered person in the world Allah
Akbar. Um and then something that I
forgot to mention is that if you
remember this is uh in Medina right and
no sorry this is in Mecca this is the
story is being revealed in Mecca the um
is going through hardship and
persecution. So here some companions of
the prophetam and the prophetam himself
are being reminded that the truth will
always prevail and its people will
always prevail. And this is a general
reminder for the um as well that be
patient upon those trials and
tribulations for you too shall prevail.
Just like the inhabitants of the cave
preval just like the inhabitants of the
caveat. The people decided to build a
masid in the area that they were in. The
masjid is where you go to protect your
iman which is the reason they decided to
build a masid and that's how they
honorated uh the noble amongst them.
Right? They consider them righteous
people and thus they wanted to honor
their legacy. So they built this masid.
Allah knows where they were. It was not
an important detail and this is
something that we've emphasized. Now,
alhamdulillah, I'm glad that I
remembered uh during the dust and not
after. Alhamdulillah. Alhamdulillah.
Alhamdulillah. Now, let's get back to
where we were at ayah 26. And I wanted
to share with you 14 lessons that we get
from the story of the cave. 14 lessons
that we get from the story of the cave.
And I will turn uh the PowerPoint off uh
at this point.
So now
um where is the sharing component? Where
is the sharing component? Not
video unfocus screen. No, I don't want
to do
that. Where is
um Okay, let's try this. There we go.
No, I cannot wait to get home and do my
next session with you
guys inshallah from my desktop. From my
desktop. Okay, what happens? Let me do
this. Uh, let's do that. There we go.
Alhamdulillah. I am
back. I'm hoping that you can see me. It
froze. Okay. How about now? I'm hoping
that you can see me. If not, my
sincerest apologies again. May Allah
subhana wa ta'ala forgive us all and
make things easy for all of us. 14
lessons that we learn from the story of
the cave. Number one, the story serves
as a consolation, comfort, and support
for the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam. his companions and us as
believers. Trials, test, challenges and
difficulties, particularly those related
to belief and practice are part of the
human experience. This story provides us
with insight on how to navigate through
these challenges and overcome them with
courage, patience and reliance upon
Allah. So meaning challenges arise, face
them with courage, patience and reliance
upon Allah. This story serves as a proof
of prophethhood and the miraculous
nature of the Quran. So we see that they
asked about the people of the cave. The
prophetam received revelation. But not
only that, the prophetam received
revelation in detail that they did not
know. And that is the miraculous nature
of the Quran. It serves as a proof of
the infinite might, power and glory and
magnificence of Allah that just like he
caused them to sleep for 309 years,
Allah subhanana wa ta'ala will cause us
to die and to resurrect us with such
ease. With such ease. And these are from
the signs of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
that we should be paying attention to.
So the symbolic parallels between death
and resurrection uh and between um you
know the their sleep. Number four, it
highlights the importance of having
genuine care and concern for the
protection of one's faith and religion.
Number five, it is an excellent example
of being dedicated to faith and religion
in one's youth. There is a well-known
hadith of the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam in which he mentions seven
categories of people that will be shaded
on the day of judgment and one of them
is a youth that is raised in the worship
of Allah subhana wa ta'ala. So while we
are young we should try our best to
worship Allah subhana wa ta'ala. There's
a number there is a unique relationship
between youth faith and bringing about
change in society. So you need the
strength and the energy of your youth.
You need your faith uh to bring about
positive change in society. Change in
society is often brought about by the
young and not by the old. Number seven,
it highlights the importance of
righteous companionship. And we see this
time and time again. Subhan Allah. That
when you're alone, it's a lot more
difficult to go through these
challenges. But when you're in righteous
company, it becomes a lot easier. The
joy becomes twice the joy and the
sadness becomes half the sadness through
righteous company. Number eight, eman
reliance upon Allah and patience have a
direct relationship with Allah's mercy,
care, and protection. And I'll repeat
this one more time. Subhan
Allah. That faith, reliance upon Allah,
and patience have a direct relationship
with Allah's mercy, care, and
protection. So the more eman you have,
the more you have and the more you have,
the more you receive Allah subhana wa
ta'ala's mercy, care and protection.
Number nine, the story highlights the
concepts of guidance and misguidance and
dala. Number 10, we can draw several
parallels between their seeking refuge
in the cave and the prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam and Abu
Bakr during the hij meaning when they
were in the cave of number 11. It is a
practical example of seeing truth to
power. Number 12, the importance of
avoiding useless discussions that have
no relevance or importance to one's
life, salvation, faith or relationship
with Allah. 13, don't discuss topics
without knowledge. Don't discuss topics
without knowledge. and 14 the importance
of saying inshallah and recognizing that
everything happens according to the will
decree judgment and wisdom of Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala those are 14 lessons
that we can derive and obviously there
are many many more that you can derive
as well can I share them on the screen
why don't I try to type them up
and you know um you guys can ask your
questions in the question box during
that time and I will try my best uh to
type them up inshallah. So number one uh
serves as
consolation and comfort for the
believers for the
believers
who stick to the truth.
two uh serves as proof of
prophethood and
um
[Music]
miraculous
nature of the
Quran.
Um, inshallah I know you'll get it
tomorrow, but this will be a
uh a good reminder for me as well.
Inshallah. That's number two. Number
three, it serves as a uh serves as a
reminder of the uh might and power of
Allah.
Number four, the
importance
of preserving and
protecting one's
faith. Number five,
[Music]
um an example
of of uh being
dedicated of being
dedicated to faith while
young. Six
um
unique
relationship of changing society
when one is young and has
faith. Seven, uh the
importance of
righteous
company. Number eight,
um
faith, reliance,
uh and patience.
have a
direct correlation have a direct
relationship relationship with Allah's
mercy mercy care and protection.
nine
um
highlights and bala guidance and
misguidance and
um
parallels
between the cave of
Thor and the hija.
There's Abu
Bakr. Um, quick spell check. There we
go. Oops. What happened
here?
Uh, there we go. Let's get back. Okay.
Uh,
11. Uh, example of truth to power.
Example of speaking truth to power.
12 is
um
avoiding useless
discussions. 13 uh don't
speak without
knowledge. And 14 uh always say
inshallah when intending to do
something.
Alhamdulillah. So now you have those 14
lessons that I um mentioned. Now let's
answer your
questions. So I'll quickly go through
the chat and see if anyone uh said
anything. Okay. Uh a lot of people
said yes, you all pointed out that we
skipped 21. See, that's why we need to
find a way that I can uh share the
PowerPoint and still see the chat box
because when I'm sharing a PowerPoint, I
can't see the chat box. Uh what about
when Allah subhana wa ta'ala says,
"Okay, we addressed that. It froze." Uh
okay, perfect. Thank you for not
forgetting about us on your trip and
taking time to discuss. It is my
absolute and pleasure to to talk to all
of you. I can't express to you how happy
I get to spend time with you. May Allah
subhanaa tala bless you and protect all
of you. the fact that you're willing to
learn on a Monday night. I cannot tell
you how much joy that brings to me and
how much optimism that brings to me for
the um of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi
wasallam.
Um we've discussed that you were too
fast. I I typed it out. I always compare
my life like the people of the cave and
also the prophet prophet Ibraim as I
feel so lost in my own Muslim community.
May Allah make things easy for you and
grant you righteous companionship and
make things easy for you just like he
made things easy for the people of the
cave. A mean
um okay oh someone typed some notes as
well for typing up those notes and
sharing. Okay now let's answer your
questions.
So from among the five things that the
Sharia has come to protect which one is
the protection uh of honor a part of? So
honor is a part of uh life and it is a
part of the last one as well. So the
scholars actually differed what is the
the fifth and last one. So they're
agreed that preservation of life is
number one. They've agreed that
preservation of dean is number two. And
then they differed on the order of three
and four. So others said some said
intellect, some said wealth which makes
it three and four. And then the fifth
one they actually differed on what the
fifth one actually is. So some of them
said living a life of honor. So honor
became its own category. And some said
it is progeny the continu procreation
and the continuation of human life. And
I just added with honor because it has
to be with honor at that time. So honor
is a part of uh life and it is uh part
of uh procreation with life and living a
life with honor. So that's where it
comes from. Number
two for this class. Do you have any
recommendations for books which have
in-depth Quranic in English? Um so there
is uh a of which is available online you
can refer to that there is a translation
of it's not very in-depth uh but you can
refer to that and then you also have the
uh
bymani that is pretty good as well that
is pretty good as well for 23 and 24 why
did would the prophet want to hide the
these ayat not hide hide the ayat but
hide the reason of revelation of the
ayah hide the reason of revelation of
the ayah meaning that he was very
embarrassed that he forgot to remember
Allah subhana wa ta'ala right and here
Allah subhanaa tala is reminding him
that hey that you forgot to remember
Allah because he loved Allahhana so much
he recognized what Allahhana had done
for him so it wasn't about hiding the
ays it was about hiding the reasons of
revelation it was about hiding the
reasons of revelation
uh tying back to when Allah subhanaa
tala delayed revelation to the prophet
I'm not saying inshallah how do we know
when Allah is angry with us or delaying
something due to our
sins so subhan Allah this is a a great
question and I think if you live a life
of constantly making and constantly
making toba then that is how you keep
your relationship right with Allah that
is how you keep your relationship right
with Allah constantly make toba
constantly make and that way you don't
uh you're not giving Allahhana tala a
reason to be angry with you because
Allahhana tala is so merciful that he
overlooks our mistakes and our sins and
he doesn't get angry with us unjustly
even though he overlooks most of our
mistakes and our faults. So now I would
say that as long as you're making and
doing good deeds to wipe away your sins,
you shouldn't have such thoughts, but
rather always assume the best of Allah
subhana wa ta'ala as long as you are
trying your best and doing your due
diligence. Question from last class, you
stated that some people in Jenna had
differences. So they have differences
here. Isn't the Jenna of that time not
free from negativity? Uh I wasn't
referring to to Jenna. This is aith
inahk at the beginning of creation.
Um if you look in
uh if I'm not mistaken around war verse
172 Allahhana talks about how Allah
subhana t gathered all of the souls of
bani and made them
testify am I not your lord and they said
yes. So at that time there were certain
souls that got together and they had
affinity amongst themselves and if they
had affinity at that time then in this
earth they too will have affinity and
you'll naturally get along with them
without putting much effort. Then there
were other souls that didn't get along
and they differed with one another and
thus when they come into this earth and
they see each other they naturally
differ amongst themselves and that is
why sometimes you see someone and you
become like best friends without much
effort and other individuals subhan all
you can try your best but you constantly
keep differing it one of the reasoning
is because the souls differed uh in the
realm of the souls in the realm of the
souls so that's what I was referring to
what about masid nui it has several
graves in it. So in its essence midi did
not have any graves in it but rather as
the mid expanded then that is when the
graves were included in it but in its
essence the masid was not built on top
of it and this is the exception to the
rule uh the exception to the rule
because it's the you know sanctity of
the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
and Abu Bakr and Omar none of us would
dare to ever move uh their bodies right
so as a necessity the uh masid is built
around them. But for future purposes,
there's no one of this stature that you
would build a masid upon their grave.
Not even the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam himself. But out of necessity,
it was allowed. And we have a principle
that
says the necessities make the um
impermissible permissible. Next
question. Again, that was already
answered. When one verbalizes or
sallallahu alaihi wasallam or anything
of that nature, does it need to be
audible for audible for others to hear
or is it sufficient as long one says it
with one's lips? It does not need to be
audible. As long as one says it with
one's lips, then that is perfectly fine.
And that is perfectly fine based on what
you said. Uh it is fine to dress
according to how your particular culture
typically dresses as long as it does not
oppose the Sharia. Yes, that is
perfectly fine. So an example being men
are encouraged to keep their uh trousers
above their ankles and obviously women
have to wear hijab even though if you
know uh our culture does not support
this we have to go against the culture
and those things that are in opposition
to this but everything else we uh
embrace everything else we embrace is
everything that was commanded to the
prophetam for us as well no that is not
always the case so for example the
prophet is commanded with the
as a mandatory commandment for us. It is
not um mandatory. For us it is not
mandatory. Can you repeat what was the
opinion of ayah 22? Uh yes that is when
Allahhana
says so in that there were two
interpretations. One is to keep it as a
part of the ayah and two is to separate
it and isolate it from the ayah. So
those that said that you keep it as a
part of the ayah that whenever you
forget just remember Allah subhana wa
ta'ala right just like when you forget
to say at the beginning of your food you
say whenever you remember other scholars
said that no this is a separate part of
the ay and needs to be understood in
isolation meaning that whenever you
forget something and you're forgetful
then
say or
Sayham and then Allah subhana wa ta'ala
will help you remember. Allah subhana wa
ta'ala will help you remember. These are
um the two opinions that I came across
and Allahhana wa ta knows best. Do you
recommend we travel to seek to be in the
cave? No, it is not. You should not
travel to to seek out this cave but
rather travel to Mecca in
Medina. Those are the mass that you
should travel for and to does this surah
encourage kalwa as well or good company.
uh it encourages both that you should
take time to reflect upon the creation
of Allah in your moments and then alone
and then also seek out good and
righteous company when you can seek out
good and righteous company when you can
and good company is better than
isolation is better than isolation in my
opinion the longer we stay uh doing the
sun the longer our lives will be hard
I'm not
sure see you in Jenna you're invited to
palace. May Allah subhana wa ta'ala
grant
us and grant us all many many
palaces. In my opinion, the longer we
stay doing the sin, the longer our lives
will be hard. That is very true. That is
very true. Sins have a direct impact on
our lives. Have a direct impact on our
lives. And we should try to minimize our
sins. May Allah subhana wa ta'ala
forgive us all and protect us all and
make us of those um that enter into
paradise
without my dear brothers and sisters it
has been an absolute honor and pleasure
anything that I've said that is correct
is from Allahhana alone and all praise
is due to him anything that I've said
that is incorrect is from myself and may
Allah subhanaa tala forgive me and all
of
you I hope to see you all next
signing off from Houston, Texas.